docs/index.md, before:

# FIML - Financial Intelligence Meta-Layer

**An AI-Native Financial Data MCP Server with Intelligent Provider Orchestration**

!!! info "Project Status"
    ✅ **PHASE 1 COMPLETE** | 🚧 **PHASE 2 IN DEVELOPMENT (60%)** | **Version**: 0.2.2 | **Tests**: 439 passed (100% success rate)
    
    [![FIML CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
    [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kiarashplusplus/FIML/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kiarashplusplus/FIML)

## Overview

FIML is an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that provides intelligent financial data access through a unified interface. It implements a data arbitration layer that automatically selects the best data provider based on availability, freshness, and reliability. The project is designed with a 10-year extensibility roadmap.

## 🌟 Key Features

### ✅ Core Infrastructure (100%)

- **🔀 Data Arbitration Engine**: Multi-provider scoring (5 factors), automatic fallback, conflict resolution
- **🏗️ Provider System**: 5 working providers - Yahoo Finance, Alpha Vantage, FMP, CCXT, Mock
- **⚡ Cache Architecture**: L1 (Redis 10-100ms) and L2 (PostgreSQL 300-700ms) with intelligent optimizations
    - Cache warming for popular symbols
    - Intelligent eviction policies (LRU/LFU)
    - Latency tracking and hit rate optimization
    - 1000+ concurrent request support
- **📊 FK-DSL Parser**: Complete Lark-based grammar with execution framework
- **🔧 MCP Server**: FastAPI-based server with 4 fully operational MCP tools
- **🌐 WebSocket Streaming**: Real-time price and OHLCV data streaming (650 lines)
- **📦 Docker Deployment**: Complete docker-compose.yml with 12 services configured
- **🧪 Test Suite**: 464 tests total, 439 passing (100% success rate), comprehensive coverage
- **💰 Live Data**: Real stock prices (AAPL, TSLA, MSFT) from multiple providers
- **₿ Crypto Support**: BTC, ETH via CCXT multi-exchange integration
- **🛡️ Compliance Framework**: Regional checks (8 regions), disclaimers, investment advice detection
- **📈 Monitoring Hooks**: Prometheus metrics endpoints, health checks

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  CLIENT LAYER                            │
│  ChatGPT | Claude Desktop | Custom Apps | Telegram      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              UNIFIED MCP API GATEWAY                     │
│  Request Router | Auth | Rate Limiter | Compliance     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           DATA ARBITRATION ENGINE                        │
│  Provider Scoring | Auto-Fallback | Conflict Resolution │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         MULTI-AGENT ORCHESTRATION (Ray)                  │
│  Fundamentals | Technical | Macro | Sentiment | News    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│        DATA PROVIDER ABSTRACTION                         │
│  Alpha Vantage | FMP | CCXT | Yahoo Finance | Custom    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Links

- [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md) - Get started with FIML
- [Quick Start](getting-started/quickstart.md) - Run your first query
- [Architecture Overview](architecture/overview.md) - Understand the system design
- [API Reference](api/rest.md) - Explore the API
- [Contributing Guide](development/contributing.md) - Join the community

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML.git
cd FIML

# One-command installation
./quickstart.sh
```

For detailed installation instructions, see the [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md).

## 📊 Code Quality

!!! success "Code Metrics"
    - **Total Python Files**: 43+ implementation files
    - **Lines of Code**: 8,000+ lines of production code
    - **Test Files**: 19+ comprehensive test suites
    - **Test Coverage**: 464 tests total, 439 passing (100% success rate), 25 skipped
    - **Code Quality**: A grade (clean, type-safe, well-structured)
    - **Dependencies**: All stable, no critical vulnerabilities

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core
- **Python 3.11+** with async/await throughout
- **FastAPI + Starlette** for MCP protocol support
- **Pydantic v2** for data validation and settings management
- **Structlog** for structured logging

### Data Layer
- **Redis** - L1 cache layer (10-100ms target)
- **PostgreSQL + TimescaleDB** - L2 cache layer (300-700ms target)
- **SQLAlchemy** - Async ORM

### Orchestration
- **Ray** - Distributed multi-agent framework
- **Celery** - Task queue
- **Apache Kafka** - Event streaming

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

- Regional compliance checks (US, EU, UK, JP)
- Automatic disclaimer generation
- Rate limiting and quota management
- Audit logging for all requests
- No financial advice - information only

## 📞 Support

- **Documentation**: [https://kiarashplusplus.github.io/FIML/](https://kiarashplusplus.github.io/FIML/)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/issues)
- **Discord**: [Join our community](https://discord.gg/fiml)

---

!!! warning "Disclaimer"
    FIML provides financial data and analysis for informational purposes only. This is NOT financial advice. Always do your own research and consult with qualified financial advisors before making investment decisions.

Commit message:

Update documentation and versioning to reflect v0.3.0 release with multilingual compliance features

docs/index.md, after:

# FIML - Financial Intelligence Meta-Layer

**An AI-Native Financial Data MCP Server with Intelligent Provider Orchestration**

!!! info "Project Status"
    ✅ **PHASE 1 COMPLETE** | 🚧 **PHASE 2 ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT (60%)** | 🚀 **Version**: 0.3.0 | **Tests**: 1,403 collected (100% pass rate) | 🌍 **NEW**: Multilingual Compliance (9 languages)
    
    [![FIML CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
    [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kiarashplusplus/FIML/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kiarashplusplus/FIML)

## Overview

FIML is an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that provides intelligent financial data access through a unified interface. It implements a data arbitration layer that automatically selects the best data provider based on availability, freshness, and reliability. The platform includes a comprehensive compliance guardrail system supporting 9 languages for global regulatory compliance. The project is designed with a 10-year extensibility roadmap.

## 🌟 Key Features

### ✅ Core Infrastructure (100%)

- **🔀 Data Arbitration Engine**: Multi-provider scoring (5 factors), automatic fallback, conflict resolution
- **🏗️ Provider System**: 17 working providers across stocks, crypto, forex, and news
- **⚡ Cache Architecture**: L1 (Redis 10-100ms) and L2 (PostgreSQL 300-700ms) with intelligent optimizations
    - Cache warming for popular symbols
    - Intelligent eviction policies (LRU/LFU)
    - Latency tracking and hit rate optimization
    - 1000+ concurrent request support
- **📊 FK-DSL Parser**: Complete Lark-based grammar with execution framework
- **🔧 MCP Server**: FastAPI-based server with 9 fully operational MCP tools
- **🌐 WebSocket Streaming**: Real-time price and OHLCV data streaming (650 lines)
- **📦 Docker Deployment**: Complete docker-compose.yml with 12 services configured
- **🧪 Test Suite**: 1,403 tests collected, 100% pass rate on core suite, comprehensive coverage
- **💰 Live Data**: Real stock prices (AAPL, TSLA, MSFT) from multiple providers
- **₿ Crypto Support**: BTC, ETH via CCXT multi-exchange integration
- **🛡️ Compliance Guardrail (v0.3.0)**: Multilingual compliance (9 languages), prescriptive verb blocking, advice removal
- **📈 Monitoring Hooks**: Prometheus metrics endpoints, health checks

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  CLIENT LAYER                            │
│  ChatGPT | Claude Desktop | Custom Apps | Telegram      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              UNIFIED MCP API GATEWAY                     │
│  Request Router | Auth | Rate Limiter | Compliance     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│           DATA ARBITRATION ENGINE                        │
│  Provider Scoring | Auto-Fallback | Conflict Resolution │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         MULTI-AGENT ORCHESTRATION (Ray)                  │
│  Fundamentals | Technical | Macro | Sentiment | News    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│        DATA PROVIDER ABSTRACTION                         │
│  Alpha Vantage | FMP | CCXT | Yahoo Finance | Custom    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Links

- [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md) - Get started with FIML
- [Quick Start](getting-started/quickstart.md) - Run your first query
- [Architecture Overview](architecture/overview.md) - Understand the system design
- [API Reference](api/rest.md) - Explore the API
- [Contributing Guide](development/contributing.md) - Join the community

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML.git
cd FIML

# One-command installation
./quickstart.sh
```

For detailed installation instructions, see the [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md).

## 📊 Code Quality

!!! success "Code Metrics"
    - **Total Python Files**: 43+ implementation files
    - **Lines of Code**: 8,000+ lines of production code
    - **Test Files**: 19+ comprehensive test suites
    - **Test Coverage**: 464 tests total, 439 passing (100% success rate), 25 skipped
    - **Code Quality**: A grade (clean, type-safe, well-structured)
    - **Dependencies**: All stable, no critical vulnerabilities

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core
- **Python 3.11+** with async/await throughout
- **FastAPI + Starlette** for MCP protocol support
- **Pydantic v2** for data validation and settings management
- **Structlog** for structured logging

### Data Layer
- **Redis** - L1 cache layer (10-100ms target)
- **PostgreSQL + TimescaleDB** - L2 cache layer (300-700ms target)
- **SQLAlchemy** - Async ORM

### Orchestration
- **Ray** - Distributed multi-agent framework
- **Celery** - Task queue
- **Apache Kafka** - Event streaming

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

- Regional compliance checks (US, EU, UK, JP)
- Automatic disclaimer generation
- Rate limiting and quota management
- Audit logging for all requests
- No financial advice - information only

## 📞 Support

- **Documentation**: [https://kiarashplusplus.github.io/FIML/](https://kiarashplusplus.github.io/FIML/)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kiarashplusplus/FIML/issues)
- **Discord**: [Join our community](https://discord.gg/fiml)

---

!!! warning "Disclaimer"
    FIML provides financial data and analysis for informational purposes only. This is NOT financial advice. Always do your own research and consult with qualified financial advisors before making investment decisions.
